Today we will talk about BAN and
TIER, which are the two most well-
known indicators that are used to
evaluate, to evaluate the
profitability or viability of
investment projects, of investments.
We will see them together because they
are very related and understand
each other better.
Before we define them, I want
you to keep in mind that
when we go from a cash flow
projection.
A cash flow projection that can
have different forms, but this would
be a very simplified one
in which we have an initial cash
flow, a negative initial cash
flow because it is the investment
we make and that subsequently
generates a series of
positive cash flows.
We always have to start from the
projection of a series of cash
flows.
That is where we will get the ban and
the TER.
We will define both, the two indicators,
the BAN and the TIER.
The BAN is the net current value and
is the economic value created by an
investment, but it takes into account,
given or starting from a discount
rate that is representative of the
profitability we demand.
Given that discount rate,
we discount the flows and obtain
economic value.
The economic value in monetary
units that can be in euros,
in dollars, etc.
In contrast, the TERER is a different indicator.
The internal return rate that informs
us is the expected return on
an investment, which is not
the same as the discount rate.
It can be lower or higher
or it can be equal to the discount
rate or the profitability
we require.
The unit is a percentage
because it is a measure of profitability.
Let's start with the ban.
The BAN, the formula you already know,
is the present value, the current
value of an investment.
So what we do is, we have
a series of cash flows and
we will update them and as we
said in the definition of the
BAN, given a discount rate.
That is, in this case what we
will discount is those cash flows
at the discount rate that is the
profitability we demand.
That does not have to be the actual
profitability of the project, the expected
profitability.
This is the minimum profitability we
require in accordance, if you remember
in the previous class, based on
the minimum interest we can get
without risk plus the risk premium
and the box is what we demand.
Will we cut those flowers?
The initial cash flow is
usually the investment.
It is easier to understand it that way.
To better understand the BAN, what
we will do is apply it to an example.
I'm going to get you in the position
that we're going to build a gym.
You have three different options because
you have three different locations.
Three different sizes.
Keep in mind that the size of
the room will determine both the
initial investment you have to
make in repair etc. in machinery,
it will determine the square
meters of the gym and therefore
will determine the number
of partners and income.
It will condition everything.
But we have three alternatives and
we have to calculate or value the
investment in each of them.
Well, let's project the
cash flow.
First, let's see what the
discount rate we will apply.
That being said, let's see what the
minimum profitability we will
require.
Well, for all three cases, in
the gym example, we will demand
the same profitability because
we perceive the same risk, which
for example is 20%.
So we are building the
cash flow.
In this case, with a 20%
discount rate.
Now what we have to do is project
both the cash flows that will be
generated as well as the initial
investment we need.
Let us go case by case.
In the first case, the initial
investment is 300,000 euros
and cash flows will be generated
in the next three years
of 150,000 euros.
If we discount it, we calculate the
current net value, we get a positive
bank of 16,000 euros.
Let us go to the following case, the
following example.
In this case it is a little
bigger gym, we have to make a bigger
investment and it is true
that we will get a higher
cash flow.
In this case of 180,000, we discount
them to 20% and it goes out that
the current net value is zero.
And we go to the third option, in which
it is a more equitable gym, we have
to make a smaller investment,
in this case we have to invest
150,000 euros and we will generate
only 60,000 euros every
year.
We discount it to 20% and it comes out
that the current net value is negative,
it is less than 23.000 euros.
So what I would like
now is that we could interpret
these results.
We are going to go with the first
of the gyms, in this case we
have got a positive bank.
What does this mean?
Let us think.
What it means is that the actual
profitability of the project is higher
than what we demand, it is higher
than the discount rate.
Please note that we are demanding a
20%, we do not want less than
a 20 % for this project because it
is the risk we perceive,
we are not willing to enter this
project for less than a 20%,
and it results that with that minimum
investment of 300,000 euros and
those projected cash flows,
an additional economic value
of 16,000 euros is generated.
It is therefore easy, it is intuitive
to think that the actual
profitability is higher than the required.
That is, in this case, I incorporate
the concept of the TIR, the TIR of
the project, the profitability is
higher than the discount rate, at
20%.
Let's go to the next case.
Remember it was a larger gym
where we were going to get a
higher cash flow, but at the end
the current net value is zero.
This means that no added value is created.
Think about it, what profitability do
you think we are getting in this case?
The profitability is exactly 20%,
in this case where the net
current value is zero.
The profitability we obtain is exactly
the same as the minimum required,
at 20%.
Therefore, here the TIR, the
profitability, is equal to the discount
rate.
I want you to understand all this
intuitively, because it is the only
way to assimilate it well.
Let us go to the last case.
It is the smallest gym and it turns
out that we have calculated the BAN
and we are negative.
It is quite simple to understand that
if the BAN goes negative, lower than
zero, it is because the profitability
of this project, starting from
those cash flows, starting
from that investment, is less
than 20%.
That is, we should not make this
investment, because we demand a minimum
of 20% for the risk that it has and
really the real profitability
that we are getting, the TIR,
which So in short, if the BAN
in the first of the cases is higher
than zero, if we have a positive
BAN, it is because the profitability
of that project, those
cash flows, that investment,
is higher than the discount
rate, the minimum profitability
that we are demanding.
That is, that TIR, the profitability,
is higher here than the discount
rate.
In the case of the medium in which
the BAN is equal to zero, in this case,
it is that the profitability we are
getting is just the one
we were demanding.
The shooting is the same.
And in the third of the cases where
the BAN is negative, it is because
the real profitability
of the project, given those
cash flows, that investment,
is less than the discount rate.
Let's go deeper into the TIR,
which is the internal rate of
return, which we have named
before, but you may not yet understand
it, and in addition, I'm
aware that it's not easy.
The TIR, really, the concept is simple
because it is the profitability of
the investment.
What is not easy is to get to it,
the formula.
By the way, the TIR is an indicator
of profitability, therefore, it
is a percentage, unlike the BAN,
which is an absolute value, which
are euros, dollars, etc.
Let us remember how we calculated the
ban.
The BAN is the present value or
current value of those flows
that will be generated, discounted
to the rate, to the rate of updating
that we require in accordance
with the risk.
Well, the TIR, and this is something
you have to remember, is profitability
or it is the rate that makes
the BAN equal to zero.
This may not be intuitive
to you.
We will try to understand it better by looking
at the formula.
We have the BAN formula in which
we have a series of cash flows,
and what we say is that when
the BAN is equal to zero, we have
it there, the upgrade
rate is equal to the TIR.
It may not be well understood
yet, but we will do one thing, we will
go to that investment, we will pass
the value of the investment
to the other side, and we have the
formula of so.
In this case, what we have is
that we make an investment,
we will get a profit and cash
flows will be generated.
It is easy to understand, but
in the end we used the same
formula.
In this case, we see, the
investment we will make is exactly
the current value of a series of
cash flows that will be generated,
discounted to the real
profitability of the project.